Report of wash-up meeting in Cardiff
====================================

14th November 2015

Fifteen of us braved howling wind and driving rain (Daniele and Vince have
promised better weather next September) to meet up in Cardiff last Saturday, to
look around City Hall, to discuss how the last conference went, and to begin to
talk about the kind of conference we'd like to see next year.  It was
deliberately not a planning meeting.

We were firstly given a tour of the available rooms at Cardiff's City Hall.  We
were shown around by Gale, a member of the events team at City Hall.  She
seemed very competent and accommodating, and not in the least bit fazed by the
prospect of hosting several hundred Python people.

You can get a good feel for the aesthetic of the venue (Wikipedia calls it
"Edwardian Baroque") from the virtual tour on the `City Hall website
<http://www.cardiffcityhall.com/>`_.  There are several rooms we could use,
with the largest being the Assembly Room (which seats up to 600), with several
rooms of other sizes.  Catering could be done on site in the Lower Hall.  It is
likely that we'd need to provide our own PA system.

We then had a sandwich lunch at the maths faculty, and spent a couple of hours
talking about last year and about possibilities for next year.

Mary began by giving a statement of last year's accounts.  In short, we're in a
very healthy financial position.  Full accounts will be circulated once
everything has been settled up.

Kristian then gave a short presentation about user stories.  A user story is a
way of capturing what a user needs in order to achieve a goal, and takes the
general form "As $role I want $desire so that $benefit".  There are several
technical examples on `Wikipedia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/City_Hall,_Cardiff>`_, and Kristian has written
more about this on `his blog
<http://blog.doismellburning.co.uk/user-stories/>`_.

The reason I wanted us to talk about user stories is that I'm not aware of us
ever really having discussed the questions "what is PyCon UK for?" and "what do
the people who come to PyCon UK (our users) want out of the conference?".
Writing user stories is one way to help us answer these questions, and I hope,
over the coming months, to collect and curate a set of user stories from
members of the community, relating to their expectations and requirements of
the conference.

We then split into groups of three, and spent time reading through the feedback
gathered from users after the last conference, and trying to turn some of the
feedback into user stories.  It was not possible to produce user stories
directly from a lot of feedback, but I found that often a piece of feedback
prompted us to think more generally about a what somebody needs or wants out of
a conference.

Luis is collecting the user stories that we produced, and I hope we can use
these to seed a user story database before we start inviting contributions from
members of the community.

Daniele then talked about Cardiff as a city for hosting a conference, drawing
on his experience of running the `Django Weekend <http://djangoweekend.org/>`_
in 2014 and `DjangoCon EU <http://2015.djangocon.eu/>`_ in 2015.  He talked
about the kinds of social events that they had hosted (including some evening
meals at the `Clink
<http://theclinkcharity.org/the-clink-restaurants/cardiff-wales/>`_ and the
conference dinner at the `National Museum <http://www.museumwales.ac.uk/>`_)
and about the kinds of things they had done to look after the wellbeing of
delegates, including bringing in some counsellors from the University for free
consultation sessions.

Daniele talked about how DjangoCon EU aimed to be as inclusive as possible, by
doing things such as providing a creche and providing some financial support.
He also talked about choosing a programme so that there was always at least one
woman speaking during each of the four sessions during the day.  (To do this
meant rejecting talks from some established and well-known speakers, but as a
delegate I thought the average standard of the talks at the conference was
higher than almost any other conference I've been to.)

He also shared an overview of the DjangoCon EU budget, which makes me confident
that we can put on an affordable conference in Cardiff next year.

Zeth then talked about plans for an unconference in Birmingham early next year,
as well as his plans to put in a bid to host EuroPython in Birmingham in 2017.
It sounds like plans for both of these are at an early stage, and I'll let him
update us as these develop.

We then talked about establishing the PyCon UK Society as a legal entity.  Zeth
has talked in the past with Van (chair of the PSF) about options for becoming
the UK branch of the PSF, but we felt that getting this right might take some
time, and that we should get a move on.  Kristian has looked into various
options for this and will report soon about the best options for next year.

We ended the meeting by brainstorming ideas for "fantasy PyCon UK".  To keep
things moving, I suggested that we took it in turns to suggest a short .  I
didn't feel this worked brilliantly as a format (I'm sorry about this) but it
led to some quite useful discussion about the kind of conference we might want
to be involved with.  It also provided evidence of Inglesby's Law: "As a
gathering of Python programmers goes on, the probability of the discussion
ending up at Python 2 vs Python 3 approaches 1".

Once again, I'd like to thank everybody who came for giving up their Saturdays
and bringing lots of ideas and enthusiasm to the discussion.  I'm looking
forward to working with all of you over the coming months.
